Add abstract to finale event page (#458)
SORSE/sorse.github.io: _posts/programme/2021-03-24-finale.md

- **16:05**: The International Council of RSE Associations

  Stephan Druskat, _German Aerospace Center (DLR), Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Friedrich Schiller University Jena_

>   > **Abstract:** Ever since the UK RSE association was founded in [2013](https://society-rse.org/about/history/), the number of national RSE associations and initiatives has steadily increased, and there are now groups in [Germany](https://de-rse.org), [the Netherlands](https://nl-rse.org/), [Africa](https://rsse.africa/), [the Nordics](https://nordic-rse.org/), [Belgium](https://www.be-rse.org/), the [United States](https://us-rse.org/), and the [Society of Research Software Engineering](https://society-rse.org) in the UK. Informally, international collaboration between these groups has a good and long tradition, be it serving on committees for each others' national conferences, running a concerted RSE survey, or this very series of online research software events. With the [recently founded International Council of RSE Associations](https://researchsoftware.org/2021/01/27/introducing-the-international-council-of-RSE-associations.html), there is now an open forum for national and multinational RSE associations to talk and coordinate regularly, and thus sustain this international collaboration. In this talk, I will briefly introduce the Council, and its aims and setup.

Reviewer: The UK RSE association was founded in [2013](https://society-rse.org/about/history/), and since then, additional national RSE associations and initiatives have formed: there are now groups in [Germany](https://de-rse.org), [the Netherlands](https://nl-rse.org/), [Africa](https://rsse.africa/), [the Nordics](https://nordic-rse.org/), [Belgium](https://www.be-rse.org/), and the [United States](https://us-rse.org/), along with the [Society of Research Software Engineering](https://society-rse.org) in the UK. These international groups informally talk and collaborate in a variety of settings, be it serving on committees for each others' national conferences, running a concerted RSE survey, or this very series of online research software events. With the [recently founded International Council of RSE Associations](https://researchsoftware.org/2021/01/27/introducing-the-international-council-of-RSE-associations.html), there is now an open forum for national and multinational RSE associations to talk and coordinate regularly, and thus sustain this international collaboration. In this talk, I will briefly introduce the Council, and its aims and setup.

>   > **Abstract:** Ever since the UK RSE association was founded in [2013](https://society-rse.org/about/history/), the number of national RSE associations and initiatives has steadily increased, and there are now groups in [Germany](https://de-rse.org), [the Netherlands](https://nl-rse.org/), [Africa](https://rsse.africa/), [the Nordics](https://nordic-rse.org/), [Belgium](https://www.be-rse.org/), the [United States](https://us-rse.org/), and the [Society of Research Software Engineering](https://society-rse.org) in the UK. Informally, international collaboration between these groups has a good and long tradition, be it serving on committees for each others' national conferences, running a concerted RSE survey, or this very series of online research software events. With the [recently founded International Council of RSE Associations](https://researchsoftware.org/2021/01/27/introducing-the-international-council-of-RSE-associations.html), there is now an open forum for national and multinational RSE associations to talk and coordinate regularly, and thus sustain this international collaboration. In this talk, I will briefly introduce the Council, and its aims and setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > **Abstract:** The UK RSE association was founded in [2013](https://society-rse.org/about/history/), and since then, a number of national RSE associations and initiatives have formed: there are now groups in [Germany](https://de-rse.org), [the Netherlands](https://nl-rse.org/), [Africa](https://rsse.africa/), [Australia/New Zealand](https://rse-aunz.github.io), [the Nordics](https://nordic-rse.org/), [Belgium](https://www.be-rse.org/), and the [United States](https://us-rse.org/), along with the [Society of Research Software Engineering](https://society-rse.org) in the UK. These groups informally talk and collaborate by a variety of means, be it serving on committees for each others' national conferences, running a concerted RSE survey, or this very series of online research software events. The recently founded [International Council of RSE Associations](https://researchsoftware.org/2021/01/27/introducing-the-international-council-of-RSE-associations.html) provides a formal open forum for national and multinational RSE associations to talk and coordinate regularly, and thus sustain this international collaboration. In this talk, I will briefly introduce the Council, and its aims and setup.
```

Reviewer: changing wording ,adding RSE AUZN

Author: Thanks @danielskatz! Especially for catching the AUS/NZ ommission.

>   > **Abstract:** The UK RSE association was founded in [2013](https://society-rse.org/about/history/), and since then, a number of national RSE associations and initiatives have formed: there are now groups in [Germany](https://de-rse.org), [the Netherlands](https://nl-rse.org/), [Africa](https://rsse.africa/), [Australia/New Zealand](https://rse-aunz.github.io), [the Nordics](https://nordic-rse.org/), [Belgium](https://www.be-rse.org/), and the [United States](https://us-rse.org/), along with the [Society of Research Software Engineering](https://society-rse.org) in the UK. These groups informally talk and collaborate by a variety of means, be it serving on committees for each others' national conferences, running a concerted RSE survey, or this very series of online research software events. The recently founded [International Council of RSE Associations](https://researchsoftware.org/2021/01/27/introducing-the-international-council-of-RSE-associations.html) provides a formal open forum for national and multinational RSE associations to talk and coordinate regularly, and thus sustain this international collaboration. In this talk, I will briefly introduce the Council, and its aims and setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  > **Abstract:** The UK RSE association was founded in [2013](https://society-rse.org/about/history/), and since then, a number of formal national RSE associations and initiatives have formed: there are now groups in [Germany](https://de-rse.org), [the Netherlands](https://nl-rse.org/), [Africa](https://rsse.africa/), [Australia/New Zealand](https://rse-aunz.github.io), [the Nordics](https://nordic-rse.org/), [Belgium](https://www.be-rse.org/), and the [United States](https://us-rse.org/), along with the [Society of Research Software Engineering](https://society-rse.org) in the UK. These groups informally talk and collaborate by a variety of means, be it serving on committees for each others' national conferences, running a concerted RSE survey, or this very series of online research software events. The recently founded [International Council of RSE Associations](https://researchsoftware.org/2021/01/27/introducing-the-international-council-of-RSE-associations.html) provides a formal open forum for established national and multinational RSE associations to talk and coordinate regularly, and thus sustain this international collaboration. In this talk, I will briefly introduce the Council, and its aims and setup.
```

Author: Thanks @cosden!
